kb: (cve-2025-1974) add mitigation steps for ingress-nginx vulnerability (#80)
harvester/harvesterhci.io: kb/2025-03-25/cve-2025-1974.md

---
title: 'CVE-2025-1974: ingress-nginx admission controller RCE escalation'
description: 'This article describes the mitigation steps for the CVE-2025-1974 vulnerability in Harvester.'
authors:
  - name: Ivan Sim
    title: Principal Software Engineer
    url: https://github.com/ihcsim
    image_url: https://github.com/ihcsim.png
tags: [security, cve]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

:::warning
CVE-2025-1974 has been rated as critical with a score of 9.8 of 10 (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
:::

A security issue was discovered in Kubernetes where under certain conditions, an unauthenticated attacker with access to the pod network can achieve arbitrary code execution in the context of the ingress-nginx controller. This can lead to disclosure of secrets accessible to the controller. (Note that in the default installation, the controller can access all secrets cluster-wide.)

Your Harvester cluster is affected by this vulnerability if:

- the RKE2 ingress-nginx controller is installed, and

> - the pods are running version v1.12.0-hardened6

Reviewer: Does this also impact older versions before 1.12?

Author: Fixed in 37491d40d3410547b798cd871f3211ceaaed12fd.

On one of your control plane nodes, create the file `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/server/manifests/rke2-ingress-nginx-config.yaml`, if it doesn't already exist.

Add this content to the file:

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.cattle.io/v1
kind: HelmChartConfig
metadata:
  name: rke2-ingress-nginx
  namespace: kube-system
spec:
  valuesContent: |-
    controller:
      admissionWebhooks:
        enabled: false
      extraArgs:
        enable-annotation-validation: true
```

Harvester will automatically apply this change once the content is saved.

RKE2 will delete the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration and restart the ingress-nginx pods.

:::note
These steps only mitigate the RKE2 ingress-nginx controller managed by Harvester. If you have other ingress-nginx controllers running which are not managed by Harvester, you will need to update them accordingly. See references below for more information.
:::

Once your Harvester cluster receives the RKE2 ingress-nginx patch, you can re-install the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration by removing the `HelmConfig` workaround.

> ## References

Reviewer: Suggest adding the related rke2 issue for reference.

Author: Fixed in 37491d40d3410547b798cd871f3211ceaaed12fd.

---
title: 'CVE-2025-1974: ingress-nginx admission controller RCE escalation'
description: 'This article describes the mitigation steps for the CVE-2025-1974 vulnerability in Harvester.'
authors:
  - name: Ivan Sim
    title: Principal Software Engineer
    url: https://github.com/ihcsim
    image_url: https://github.com/ihcsim.png
tags: [security, cve]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

> :::warning
> CVE-2025-1974 has been rated as critical with a score of 9.8 of 10 (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::warning

**CVE-2025-1974** (vector: CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H) has a score of [9.8 (Critical)](https://www.first.org/cvss/calculator/3-1#CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H).

All Harvester versions, including v1.4.2, are affected by this vulnerability.

:::
```

A security issue was discovered in Kubernetes where under certain conditions, an unauthenticated attacker with access to the pod network can achieve arbitrary code execution in the context of the ingress-nginx controller. This can lead to disclosure of secrets accessible to the controller. (Note that in the default installation, the controller can access all secrets cluster-wide.)

Your Harvester cluster is affected by this vulnerability if:

- the RKE2 ingress-nginx controller is installed, and

> - the pods are running version v1.12.0 or all versions prior to v1.11.4 (included)

Reviewer 3: may be we should change to something along the line of `All Harvester versions inclduing v1.4.2 are affected by this CVE`

We do enable the ingress by default as part of the installation, and v1.4.2 is using rke2 `v1.31.4+rke2r1` which uses `docker.io/rancher/nginx-ingress-controller:v1.10.5-hardened6` as the ingress image

rest looks good to me

Reviewer 2: I added `All Harvester versions, including v1.4.2, are affected by this vulnerability.` to the warning because users must see the info immediately. Do we still need this list?

Reviewer 3: we can remove the block of lines 19-22 in that case.

Author: If we agreed to keep the mentions of ingress-nginx, I'll need some help with the wording. How about:

"All Harvester versions, with RKE2 ingress-nginx controller version v1.12.0, v1.11.4 or older, are affected by this vulnerability. This includes Harvester v1.4.2."

Reviewer 2: Here is the suggested text:

The vulnerability affects specific versions of the RKE2 ingress-nginx controller (v.1.11.4 and earlier, and v1.12.0). All Harvester versions that use this controller (including v1.4.2 and later) are therefore affected.

You can confirm the version of the RKE2 ingress-nginx pods by running this command on your Harvester cluster:

```sh
kubectl -n kube-system get po -l"app.kubernetes.io/name=rke2-ingress-nginx" -ojsonpath='{.items[].spec.containers[].image}'
```

> If the command returns one of the affected versions, then use the following steps to disable the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration.
> 
> On one of your control plane nodes, create the file `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/server/manifests/rke2-ingress-nginx-config.yaml`, if it doesn't already exist.
> 
> Add this content to the file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the command returns one of the affected versions, disable the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration by performing the following steps:

1. On one of your control plane nodes, create the file `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/server/manifests/rke2-ingress-nginx-config.yaml`.

1. Add the following content to the file:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.cattle.io/v1
kind: HelmChartConfig
metadata:
  name: rke2-ingress-nginx
  namespace: kube-system
spec:
  valuesContent: |-
    controller:
      admissionWebhooks:
        enabled: false
      extraArgs:
        enable-annotation-validation: true

> ```

Reviewer 2: Please indent this code block.

Author: Are you referring to line 48 and 52? It's a multi-line embedded YAML. Notice the block scalar `|-` at line 47.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I meant that lines 36 to 49 are now part of a step in a procedure. We should indent the code block so that it is rendered as part of that step.

Author: fixed in latest squashed commit

Harvester will automatically apply this change once the content is saved.

RKE2 will delete the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration and restart the ingress-nginx pods.

:::note
These steps only mitigate the RKE2 ingress-nginx controller managed by Harvester. If you have other ingress-nginx controllers running which are not managed by Harvester, you will need to update them accordingly. See references below for more information.
:::

> Once your Harvester cluster receives the RKE2 ingress-nginx patch, you can re-install the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration by removing the `HelmConfig` workaround.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once your Harvester cluster receives the RKE2 ingress-nginx patch, you can re-install the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration by removing the `HelmChartConfig` workaround.
```

> Harvester will automatically apply this change once the content is saved.
> 
> RKE2 will delete the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration and restart the ingress-nginx pods.
> 
> :::note
> These steps only mitigate the RKE2 ingress-nginx controller managed by Harvester. If you have other ingress-nginx controllers running which are not managed by Harvester, you will need to update them accordingly. See references below for more information.
> :::
> 
> Once your Harvester cluster receives the RKE2 ingress-nginx patch, you can re-install the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration by removing the `HelmChartConfig` workaround.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Harvester automatically applies the change once the content is saved.

RKE2 deletes the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration and restarts the ingress-nginx pods.

Once your Harvester cluster receives the RKE2 ingress-nginx patch, you can re-install the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration by removing the `HelmChartConfig` workaround.

:::info important

These steps only cover the RKE2 ingress-nginx controller that is managed by Harvester. You must also update other running ingress-nginx controllers. See the References section for more information.

:::
```

Reviewer 2: I indented the first line because it's part of the step about adding content to the file.

- the pods are running version v1.12.0 or all versions prior to v1.11.4 (included)

You can confirm the version of the RKE2 ingress-nginx pods by running this command on your Harvester cluster:

```sh
kubectl -n kube-system get po -l"app.kubernetes.io/name=rke2-ingress-nginx" -ojsonpath='{.items[].spec.containers[].image}'
```

If the command returns one of the affected versions, disable the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration by performing the following steps:

1. On one of your control plane nodes, create the file `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/server/manifests/rke2-ingress-nginx-config.yaml`.

1. Add the following content to the file:

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: helm.cattle.io/v1
  kind: HelmChartConfig
  metadata:
    name: rke2-ingress-nginx
    namespace: kube-system
  spec:
    valuesContent: |-
      controller:
        admissionWebhooks:
          enabled: false
        extraArgs:
          enable-annotation-validation: true
  ```

    Harvester automatically applies the change once the content is saved.

RKE2 deletes the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration and restarts the ingress-nginx pods.

> Once your Harvester cluster receives the RKE2 ingress-nginx patch, you can re-install the `rke2-ingress-nginx-admission` validating webhook configuration by removing the `HelmChartConfig` workaround.

Reviewer 5: How do I remove the `HelmChartConfig` workaround? I tested this on a random v1.4.0 install I had lying around, and creating `/var/lib/rancher/rke2/server/manifests/rke2-ingress-nginx-config.yaml` as described above results in the rke2-ingress-nginx pod being reconfigured without the validating webhook, but if I then go and delete that manifest file I created, the rke2-ingress-nginx pod doesn't change back. I assume I also need to `kubectl -n kube-system delete helmchartconfig/rke2-ingress-nginx`?

Reviewer 3: users will need to delete the helmchartconfig object

Author: I added https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/7956 to make sure we handle this during the next upgrade, either via documentation, some codified way, or both. If user already has an existing `HelmChartConfig` object, they need to know they can't just delete it.
